README.md, before:


*python -m venv venv*

## Docker
### 1. Docker as a technology
Docker provides an `OS` level virtualization known a `containers`. This is NOT the same as hardware virtualization.

### 2. Docker 101
Objectives:
- Install docker
- imagaes
- containers
- Dockerfile
- Docker compose

- `Docker image:` This is a `read-only` template that forms the foundation of your application. It can be seen as the `cooking recipe` that has the step-by-step instructions to cook a food. The Docker image usually starts with the `base-image` which can be the OS like Ubuntu or langugae like Python; using the `FROM` command. There are pre-built images for some common application stacks such as Django, `Ruby on Rails, PHP-FPM with nginx`, etc.

There are also slim packages to start with as the basics to  building other images. Some offered by Docker are `Alpine` and `Scratch`.

The series of commands used in creating a Docker image in the Dockerfile are called `instructions.` The built image can be published to a `registry`.

`Docker container:` It is the output process when a Docker image is run on a host system. One importaant thing to note is that, when a Docker container is stopped/killed all dat is lost. This means stateful applications are not recommended if their data will be lost any time the container is stopped/killed. This problem is remedied with `Docker volumes`. This provides persisten data storage even if the container is stopped/killed. 

`Bind Mounts and Volumes:` They are different storage drivers for data persistences. Some are: `volumes, bind mounts` and `tmpfs` volumes. `tmpfs` volumes are stored inn the host system's memory only, while `bind volumes` and `volumes` are stored in the host filesystem. 

`Docker registry:` This is a place where you can store Docker images so that they can be used as the basic for an applicatoin stack. Some examples of registries are:

    1. Docker Hub
    2. Google container registry
    3. Amazon elastic container registry
    4. JFrog artifactory

The visibility level of images can either be set to `public` or `private`. Public images can be seen by everone unlike private images. 

`Dockerfile:` A set of instructions to tell the Docker how to build the image. Some typical instructions are:

    FROM: instruction to tell what the base image is 
    ENV: instruction to pass an environment variable
    RUN: instruction to run some shell commands(eg; install dependent programs not available in the base image)
    CMD: or an ENTRYPOINT instruction that tells Docker which executable to run when a container is started. 

`Docker engine:` This is the core part of Docker. This is the `client-server` application that provides the platform, runtime, and tooling for managing Docker images, containers, etc. `Docker engine` provides the following:

    1. Docker daemon
    2. Docker CLI
    3. Docker API

- `1. Docker daemon:` The services that runs in the background the host computer and handles the heavy lifting of most of the docker commands

- `2. Docker CLI:` The primary way of interacting with the Docker with a set of commands. some common commands are:

    docker build 
    docker pull
    docker run 
    docker exec

Calling `help` before any CLI command will give the required documentation of the command. Example; if you want to see a brief documentation aobut `pull` and `image`

    docker help pull
    docker help image

`3. Docker API:` Provides a way of interacting with the docker engine. Almost all operations that are done with the Docker CLI can be done with the Docker API. The `curl` command is usually used. 

`Docker compose:` This is a powerful tool for running `multi-container` applications. Docker compose gives you the ability to build, launch and run multiple container applications including dependent and linked containers.
An example of a use case of Docker compose is to run applications with their dependent services( such as `databases` and `caching providers`)

Some docker commands:
- list images: `docker image ls`
- inspecting an image: `docker image inspect <image-name>`

### Let's play with a real image
We'll be pulling the `nginx` image. It is a popular reverse proxy server for HTTPS as well as a load balancer and a web server.

- Pull the nginx image: `docker pull nginx`

*Every image haa a associated tag. Without specifying it, it is set to the latest. Tags are there to easily roll back to previous versions*

You can decide to be specific and choose an image with the tag. For instance, let's pull a specifi nginx with a tag of `1.12-alpine-perl` version of nginx. You do this by appending the tag with a colon(`:`) after the image name (in this case `nginx`)

- `docker pull nginx:1.12-alpine-perl`

- By default, images are pulled from `docker hub`. In the event where you want to pull image fromm a differenct registry, apppend the prepend the name of the registry, colon, the port that it's been served, and the name of the image. Example, pulling an an nginx image from the registry `docker-local-registry` served on `port 4000`

    docker pull docker-local-registry:4000/
    
- If the registry needs authentication, you can do that:

    docker login docker-local-registry:4000

- To run a container:

    docker run -p 80:80 nginx

The `-p` flag is telling docker to `publish` the exposed port from the Docker container to the host

- To test if the server is working:

    curl http://localhost:80






[Reference](https://www.amazon.com/Practical-Docker-Python-Release-Distribute-ebook/dp/B07FYZFKHQ)

Commit message:

second commit: removing containers and images

README.md, after:


*python -m venv venv*

## Docker
### 1. Docker as a technology
Docker provides an `OS` level virtualization known a `containers`. This is NOT the same as hardware virtualization.

### 2. Docker 101
Objectives:
- Install docker
- imagaes
- containers
- Dockerfile
- Docker compose

- `Docker image:` This is a `read-only` template that forms the foundation of your application. It can be seen as the `cooking recipe` that has the step-by-step instructions to cook a food. The Docker image usually starts with the `base-image` which can be the OS like Ubuntu or langugae like Python; using the `FROM` command. There are pre-built images for some common application stacks such as Django, `Ruby on Rails, PHP-FPM with nginx`, etc.

There are also slim packages to start with as the basics to  building other images. Some offered by Docker are `Alpine` and `Scratch`.

The series of commands used in creating a Docker image in the Dockerfile are called `instructions.` The built image can be published to a `registry`.

`Docker container:` It is the output process when a Docker image is run on a host system. One importaant thing to note is that, when a Docker container is stopped/killed all dat is lost. This means stateful applications are not recommended if their data will be lost any time the container is stopped/killed. This problem is remedied with `Docker volumes`. This provides persisten data storage even if the container is stopped/killed. 

`Bind Mounts and Volumes:` They are different storage drivers for data persistences. Some are: `volumes, bind mounts` and `tmpfs` volumes. `tmpfs` volumes are stored inn the host system's memory only, while `bind volumes` and `volumes` are stored in the host filesystem. 

`Docker registry:` This is a place where you can store Docker images so that they can be used as the basic for an applicatoin stack. Some examples of registries are:

    1. Docker Hub
    2. Google container registry
    3. Amazon elastic container registry
    4. JFrog artifactory

The visibility level of images can either be set to `public` or `private`. Public images can be seen by everone unlike private images. 

`Dockerfile:` A set of instructions to tell the Docker how to build the image. Some typical instructions are:

    FROM: instruction to tell what the base image is 
    ENV: instruction to pass an environment variable
    RUN: instruction to run some shell commands(eg; install dependent programs not available in the base image)
    CMD: or an ENTRYPOINT instruction that tells Docker which executable to run when a container is started. 

`Docker engine:` This is the core part of Docker. This is the `client-server` application that provides the platform, runtime, and tooling for managing Docker images, containers, etc. `Docker engine` provides the following:

    1. Docker daemon
    2. Docker CLI
    3. Docker API

- `1. Docker daemon:` The services that runs in the background the host computer and handles the heavy lifting of most of the docker commands

- `2. Docker CLI:` The primary way of interacting with the Docker with a set of commands. some common commands are:

    docker build 
    docker pull
    docker run 
    docker exec

Calling `help` before any CLI command will give the required documentation of the command. Example; if you want to see a brief documentation aobut `pull` and `image`

    docker help pull
    docker help image

`3. Docker API:` Provides a way of interacting with the docker engine. Almost all operations that are done with the Docker CLI can be done with the Docker API. The `curl` command is usually used. 

`Docker compose:` This is a powerful tool for running `multi-container` applications. Docker compose gives you the ability to build, launch and run multiple container applications including dependent and linked containers.
An example of a use case of Docker compose is to run applications with their dependent services( such as `databases` and `caching providers`)

Some docker commands:
- list images: `docker image ls`
- inspecting an image: `docker image inspect <image-name>`

### Let's play with a real image
We'll be pulling the `nginx` image. It is a popular reverse proxy server for HTTPS as well as a load balancer and a web server.

- Pull the nginx image: `docker pull nginx`

*Every image haa a associated tag. Without specifying it, it is set to the latest. Tags are there to easily roll back to previous versions*

You can decide to be specific and choose an image with the tag. For instance, let's pull a specifi nginx with a tag of `1.12-alpine-perl` version of nginx. You do this by appending the tag with a colon(`:`) after the image name (in this case `nginx`)

- `docker pull nginx:1.12-alpine-perl`

- By default, images are pulled from `docker hub`. In the event where you want to pull image fromm a differenct registry, apppend the prepend the name of the registry, colon, the port that it's been served, and the name of the image. Example, pulling an an nginx image from the registry `docker-local-registry` served on `port 4000`

    `docker pull docker-local-registry:4000/`
    
- If the registry needs authentication, you can do that:

    `docker login docker-local-registry:4000`

- To run a container:

    `docker run -p 80:80 nginx`

The `-p` flag is telling docker to `publish` the exposed port from the Docker container to the host

- To test if the server is working:

    `curl http://localhost:80`

- To stop the container
    `docker stop <container-id>`

- If the container refuses to stop, you can use the `kill` command
    `docker kill <container-id>`

- To confirm no container is running:
    `docker ps`

- `docker ps` only shows tha active/running containers. So to see or list all containers, use the command:
    `docker ps -a`

- You can remove a container by this command:
    `docker rm <container-id>` Example:
    `docker rum fadere34d5f`
    The ID pops up after success!
    `fadere34d5f`

- To confirm the container was indeed removed:
    `docker ps -a`

- Similarly, you can also remove an `image`
    `docker rmi <image-id>`
*NB: In order to remove an image, all containers making reference to it must all be removed first else it'll throw an error*





[Reference](https://www.amazon.com/Practical-Docker-Python-Release-Distribute-ebook/dp/B07FYZFKHQ)
